Sugarcane is a type of cash crop that is grown for its sugar and other products such as ethanol, molasses, bagasse, etc. It is one of the most important crops in the world, especially in tropical and subtropical regions1 2. Red rot of sugarcane is a type of fungal disease that is caused by the fungus Colletotrichum falcatum Went. It is one of the most severe and widespread diseases of sugarcane in Asia and other regions3 4 5.
The mode of reproduction of the pathogenic fungus of red rot is by conidia, which are asexual spores that are produced in acervuli (small cushion-like structures) on the surface of infected tissues. The conidia are hyaline, cylindrical, and have one or two septa (cross-walls). They are dispersed by wind, water, insects, or infected planting material3 4 5. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of red rot are influenced by several factors such as host susceptibility, pathogen variability, environmental conditions, and cultural practices. The disease can be transmitted by infected setts (stem cuttings) that are used for planting, or by watersplashed conidia that infect the nodes or wounds of the stem. The disease is more severe in high temperature and humidity conditions, and in poorly drained soils3 4 5.
The period of time during which the disease occurs depends on the climatic conditions and the stage of crop growth. The disease can occur at any stage of crop growth, but it is more common and destructive during the late grand growth phase (8-12 months after planting), when the cane is maturing and accumulating sugar. The disease can also occur during the ratoon crop (the crop that grows from the stubble after harvesting), which is more susceptible than the plant crop3 4 5. The environmental conditions required for the disease are high temperature and humidity, and poorly drained soils. The optimum temperature range for infection and disease development is 25-35В°C, and the optimum relative humidity is above 85%. The disease is more severe in soils with low pH, high organic matter, high nitrogen, and low calcium3 4 5.
The overwintering method of this disease is by surviving as mycelium or conidia in the infected crop debris or setts that are left in the field after harvesting or ratooning. The fungus can also survive as sclerotia (hardened masses of fungal tissue) in the soil or plant tissue3 4 5.
Fungicides such as carbendazim, mancozeb, thiophanate-methyl, propiconazole, hexaconazole and tridemorph have been reported to be effective against red rot1 2. The dosage, period and frequency of application may vary depending on the product label and the environmental conditions. The effectiveness of chemical control may also depend on the timing of application, the susceptibility of the cultivar and the severity of the infection2.
Cutting off and burning infected parts of the plant or crop debris can reduce the inoculum source and prevent further spread of the disease3 4. However, this method may not be feasible or economical in large-scale plantations2.
Some antagonistic microorganisms such as Trichoderma harzianum, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Bacillus subtilis and Streptomyces spp have been found to inhibit the growth and sporulation of Colletotrichum falcatum, the causal agent of red rot1 2. These biocontrol agents can be applied as seed treatments, soil amendments or foliar sprays2.
Adopting good agronomic practices such as crop rotation, intercropping, balanced fertilization, irrigation management, weed control and pest management can enhance the resistance and vigor of the plants and reduce the stress factors that favor disease development3 2. Moreover, using disease-free planting material and resistant or tolerant cultivars can also prevent or minimize red rot incidence3 4.
["Drooping, withering, yellowing and drying of the upper leaves3", "Wilting and dying of the entire crown and plant3", "Blackening and death of the eyes (buds) at the nodes3", "Splitting of the stem and oozing of a gummy dark-red material from the fibro-vascular bundles near the base3", "Formation of irregular discoloured blotches on the stem that may be reddish, yellowish or white with red margins3", "Shriveling and dulling of the rind with black specks on it3", "Sour smell from the split cane with red tissue and white cross-bands3"]
["Presence of dark brown to black acervuli (fruiting bodies) of Colletotrichum falcatum on the rind or inside the stem1 4", "Production of pinkish to orange masses of conidia (spores) from the acervuli under moist conditions1 4", "Detection of hyphae (fungal threads) and sclerotia (hardened masses of hyphae) in the infected tissues using microscopic examination or molecular techniques1 5"]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease, Colletotrichum falcatum, is mainly due to its ability to produce different pathotypes that can overcome the host resistance. The mechanism of resistance involves the secretion of cell wall-degrading enzymes and toxins that cause necrosis and rotting of the sugarcane tissues. The level of resistance varies depending on the pathotype and the host variety1 2. 
A quick test for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is to cut a piece of infected cane and place it in a moist chamber for 24 hours. The fungus will produce pinkish spores on the surface of the cane, which can be observed under a microscope3. 
The mechanism of infestation by the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is through infection of the nodes and wounds of the sugarcane stem. The fungus enters the vascular bundles and spreads through the intercellular spaces, causing red discoloration and gummy exudation. The fungus also produces white spots at right angles to the stem, which are characteristic of the disease4 5. 
Potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease are not well known, as most studies have focused on the fungal pathogen. However, some studies have suggested that genes involved in cell wall biosynthesis, sugar metabolism, oxidative stress response, and pathogenicity may be important for bacterial infection. 