Strawberry is a horticultural crop that belongs to the family Rosaceae1. Calcium deficiency is not a disease caused by a pathogen, but a physiological disorder that results from inadequate calcium uptake or distribution in the plant2.
Not applicable, since calcium deficiency is not caused by a pathogen. Not applicable, since calcium deficiency is not transmitted by any agent.
Calcium deficiency can occur at any stage of growth, but it is more common and severe during periods of rapid growth or drought stress2 3. Calcium deficiency can be influenced by various environmental factors, such as low soil pH, high salinity, high nitrogen or potassium fertilization, high temperature, low humidity, and poor soil aeration2 3 4.
Not applicable, since calcium deficiency does not overwinter in the soil or plant tissue.
Apply calcium-containing fertilizers such as YaraLivaВ® CalcinitВ® 15.5-0-0 19 Ca1 or YaraLivaВ® CAN-171 in split applications according to variety, yield potential, and soil test2 1. Use nitrate forms of nitrogen instead of ammonium forms to limit competition between calcium and other ions3.
Not applicable, since calcium deficiency does not affect plant parts that can be removed.
Not applicable, since calcium deficiency is not caused by a biological agent.
Maintain a steady rate of water supply through a good irrigation program3 4, avoid large fluctuations in soil moisture4, adjust nitrogen or crop environment to discourage excessively rapid growth4, limit root damage by cultivation or root diseases3, provide a rooting area free from compaction and waterlogging3, and choose varieties that are less susceptible to calcium deficiency (varieties with very large or very long fruit are more susceptible)3.
["Younger leaves develop tip burn and as leaves expand they become cupped and distorted2.", "Marginal leaf yellowing can also occur with more severe deficiencies2.", "Petioles can develop darken lesions2.", "Fruit are smaller and have a hard texture2.", "Root growth is also less2."]
["Not applicable, since calcium deficiency is not caused by a pathogen that produces physical evidence on the plant."]
Strawberry calcium deficiency is not caused by a phytopathogenic fungus, but by a nutritional disorder that affects the uptake and transport of calcium in the plant1 2. Therefore, there is no resistance mechanism or agent involved in this condition. 
A quick test for strawberry calcium deficiency is to submit a leaf sample for nutrient analysis1 3. Alternatively, you can look for visual symptoms such as leaf tip burn, cupping, distortion, marginal yellowing, petiole lesions, small and hard fruits, and reduced root growth1 2 3. 
As mentioned above, strawberry calcium deficiency is not an infestation by a phytopathogenic fungus, but a nutritional disorder. Therefore, there is no mechanism of infestation or pathogenic effectors involved in this condition. 
Strawberry calcium deficiency is not caused by a phytopathogenic bacteria either, but by a nutritional disorder. Therefore, there are no potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria involved in this condition. 