Ginger is a horticultural crop that is cultivated for its aromatic rhizomes1 2. Bacterial leaf spot disease of ginger is a bacterial disease caused by the soil-borne bacterium <em>Phyllosticta zingiberi</em>2 3 4. The disease can cause small, water-soaked spots on the leaves of ginger, which can eventually lead to the death of the plant.
The mode of reproduction of the pathogenic bacterium of this disease is not clear, but it may produce spores that can survive in the soil or infected plant debris4. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of this disease are influenced by wind and rain splashes that spread the spores from the soil or infected plants to healthy ones5 4. The disease is more severe when the crop is grown under exposed conditions3.
The period of disease onset for this disease is usually from July to October when the humidity and temperature are high2. The environmental conditions required for the disease are high humidity and temperature between 20В°C and 28В°C4. The disease is also favored by waterlogging and nematode infestation2.
The overwintering method of this disease is not well known, but it may involve the survival of spores in the soil or infected plant debris4. The bacterium that causes ginger bacterial leaf spot disease can overwinter in plant debris and seed.
Spraying copper-based fungicides such as copper oxychloride or copper hydroxide at 0.2-0.3% concentration at 15-20 days interval1 2. Alternatively, spraying streptomycin sulphate at 0.01% concentration can also be effective1. There are a number of chemical fungicides that can be used to control ginger bacterial leaf spot disease. However, these fungicides are not always effective, and they can be harmful to the environment.
Cutting off the infected parts of the plant and burning them or burying them deep in the soil1 2. Avoiding overhead irrigation and ensuring proper drainage to reduce humidity and waterlogging1 3.
Applying antagonistic microorganisms such as Trichoderma harzianum or Pseudomonas fluorescens to the soil or seed rhizomes1 2.
Using disease-free seed rhizomes and sanitizing storage vehicles, warehouses and equipment4 1. Rotating crops between host plants and non-host plants to reduce soil inoculum4 1. Planting ginger early in the dry season using supplemental furrow irrigation to avoid infection during the rainy season2. Maintaining optimal plant population, planting depth and fertilizer application2.
["Water-soaked spots appear at the collar region of the pseudo stem and progress both side upwards and downwards1.", "Mild drooping and curling of leaf margins of the lower leaves which spread upwards1.", "Yellowing starts from the lowermost leaves and gradually progresses to the upper leaves1.", "Severe yellowing and wilting symptoms occur in the advanced stage1.", "The vascular tissues of the affected pseudo stems show dark streaks1.", "The affected pseudo stem and rhizome extrude milky ooze from the vascular strands when pressed gently1.", "Rhizomes get rotted and give off a foul smell due to rotting matter4 1."]
["The presence of white spots surrounded by dark brown margins and yellow halo on the leaves caused by the bacterium Phyllosticta zingiberi4 1. The spots initially take up an ellipsoid or spindle shape and later enlarge and coalesce to form necrotic areas4 3.", "The presence of milky ooze from the vascular strands of the affected pseudo stem and rhizome caused by the bacterium Pseudomonas solanacearum1."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is not well studied, but it may involve the production of phytotoxins and degradative enzymes that damage the plant cells and tissues1. The type and level of resistance agent are not clear. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is not available, but it may be possible to use molecular techniques such as PCR or DNA sequencing to identify the bacterium Phyllosticta zingiberi from infected plant samples. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of the disease is not well understood, but it may involve the penetration of the leaf surface through stomata by the bacterium Phyllosticta zingiberi and the spread of infection intercellularly1. The type and number of pathogenic effectors are not known, but they may include phytotoxins and degradative enzymes1. The differences in infestation of different plants are not clear, but they may depend on the host susceptibility and environmental factors2. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease are not well identified, but they may include the xylem tissue which is responsible for transporting vital fluids in the plant1. Knockout lethal genes are not known. The bacterium that causes ginger bacterial leaf spot disease has a number of genes that are involved in the infection process. These genes encode proteins that allow the bacterium to attach to the plant, enter the plant, and multiply inside the plant.