Ginger is a horticultural crop that is cultivated for its aromatic rhizomes1 2. Ginger drug damage is not a disease caused by a pathogen, but a physiological disorder caused by the excessive use of chemicals such as herbicides, fungicides, or insecticides on ginger plants3 4.
The mode of reproduction of the pathogenic fungus of this disease is not applicable, as there is no fungus involved in this disorder. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of this disease are not applicable, as there is no infection involved in this disorder.
The period of disease onset for this disease is variable, depending on the type and amount of chemicals used and the stage of plant growth3 4. The environmental conditions required for the disease are not specific, as any chemical that can harm the ginger plants can cause this disorder3 4.
The overwintering method of this disease is not applicable, as there is no pathogen involved in this disorder.
Aoiding the excessive use of chemicals such as herbicides, fungicides, or insecticides on ginger plants1 2. Following the label instructions and recommended doses of the chemicals1 2. Using organic or natural alternatives to chemicals whenever possible3.
Removing and disposing of the damaged plants and plant parts to prevent further harm1 2. Washing the plants with water to remove any chemical residues1 2.
Not applicable, as there is no pathogen involved in this disorder.
Using healthy and certified planting material1 2. Practicing crop rotation and intercropping with other plants to reduce the chemical stress on ginger plants1 2.
["Chlorosis or yellowing of the leaves and stems1 2.", "Necrosis or browning of the leaf margins and tips1 2.", "Curling or wilting of the leaves and stems1 2.", "Stunting or dwarfing of the plants and reduced rhizome yield1 2."]
["The presence of chemical residues or burns on the plant surfaces1 2.", "The detection of chemical traces or metabolites by analytical techniques such as chromatography or spectrometry from plant samples4."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is not clear, as there is no fungus involved in this disorder. Ginger drug disease is not a disease caused by a pathogen, but a physiological disorder caused by the excessive use of chemicals such as herbicides, fungicides, or insecticides on ginger plants1 2. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is not applicable, as there is no fungus involved in this disorder. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of the disease is not applicable, as there is no infection involved in this disorder. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease are not applicable, as there is no bacteria involved in this disorder. 