Peanut is a horticultural crop that belongs to the legume family1. Ozone damage is not a disease caused by a pathogen, but a physiological disorder caused by a toxic air pollutant2.
Not applicable, since ozone damage is not caused by a pathogenic fungus. Ozone damage occurs when ozone gas enters the plant leaves through the stomata and causes oxidative stress during respiration3. Ozone gas is produced by the reaction of oxygen, nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds in the presence of sunlight2. Therefore, ozone damage is airborne and depends on the ambient ozone concentration and meteorological conditions2.
The period of disease onset for ozone damage varies depending on the plant species, cultivar, growth stage and environmental factors2. For peanut, ozone damage can occur at any stage of growth, but it is more severe during the pod-filling stage1. The environmental conditions required for ozone damage are high concentrations of ozone gas in the air, high temperature, high light intensity, low humidity and low soil moisture2. For peanut, ozone damage is more likely to occur in areas with tropical or subtropical climates and irrigated fields1.

Applying antioxidants, such as ascorbic acid, glutathione and ethylenediurea, to the plant leaves or soil can protect the plants from oxidative damage caused by ozone1. However, the effectiveness of these chemicals may vary depending on the plant species, cultivar, growth stage and environmental conditions1. The application dose, period and frequency may also need to be optimized for different situations1.
Installing air filters or scrubbers in greenhouses or growth chambers can reduce the ozone concentration in the enclosed spaces1. However, this method may not be feasible or cost-effective for open-field crops1.
Selecting or breeding ozone-resistant cultivars of plants can improve the crop yield and quality under ozone stress1. Some of the traits that confer ozone resistance include lower stomatal conductance, higher antioxidant capacity, faster leaf turnover and enhanced photosynthesis1. However, the genetic basis of ozone resistance is complex and may interact with other environmental factors1.
Adopting certain agronomic practices can mitigate the ozone damage to some extent. For example, adjusting the planting date, irrigation schedule, fertilization rate and crop rotation can influence the plant growth, water status, nutrient uptake and exposure to ozone1.
["Ozone damage are mainly manifested as leaf injuries that appear as chlorotic or necrotic spots, flecks, stipples or blotches on the upper surface of the leaves2.", "The symptoms usually start from the older leaves and progress to the younger ones with prolonged exposure2.", "The severity of the symptoms depends on the ozone concentration, exposure duration, plant species, cultivar and environmental conditions2.", "For peanut, ozone damage can cause reduced leaf area, premature leaf senescence and leaf abscission3."]
["It is not caused by a pathogen.", "However, some methods can be used to detect the presence of ozone gas or its effects on plant tissues.", "For example, using ozone gas detectors or stomatal flow detectors can measure the ambient ozone concentration or the ozone flux into the leaves2.", "Using impedance analysis with conducting polymer tattoos on plant leaves can reveal the changes in cellular impedance and phase signals caused by ozone-induced oxidative stress4."]
One of the phytopathogenic fungi that causes peanut smut disease is Thecaphora frezii, which belongs to the Ustilaginomycetes class. In its biological cycle, it has three structures: teliospores (the resistance structure), basidiospores and hyphae. The mycelium is the structure that penetrates the plant's gynophore and initiates the infection. For this action, the expression of effectors, pathogenicity and virulence factor proteins is necessary1. According to a recent study, 18 potential effectors and 91 factors possibly involved in the level of pathogenicity and virulence were identified from the transcriptome of two ontogenetic stages (teliospore and hyphae) of Thecaphora frezii1. However, the mechanism of resistance of this fungus is not well understood and requires further investigation. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic bacteria of peanut ozone damage is not available in the web sources I searched. However, one possible method for detecting ozone damage in fruiting plants is using vapor-deposited conducting polymer tattoos on plant leaves, which can perform on-site impedance analysis, which accurately reveals ozone damage, even at low exposure levels2. This method has been tested on grapes and apples, but not on peanuts. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of peanut ozone damage is also not clear from the web sources I searched. However, some general information about ozone effects on plants can be found. Ozone damages plants by entering leaf openings called stomata and oxidizing (burning) plant tissue during respiration. This damages the plant leaves and causes reduced survival3. Ozone exposure can also reduce photosynthesis, growth and yield of plants4. Some factors that can influence the extent of ozone damage are plant species, cultivar, developmental stage, environmental conditions and ozone concentration3. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of peanut ozone damage are not specified in the web sources I searched. However, some studies have suggested that stilbenoid phytoalexins are defensive compounds produced by peanut plants in response to fungal invasion5 6. These compounds have antifungal activity and can inhibit aflatoxin formation5. Therefore, they may be potential targets for phytopathogenic bacteria to degrade or detoxify them5. 