Corn is a type of staple crop that is widely grown and consumed as a source of food and animal feed1 2. Corn rust is a type of fungal disease caused by the pathogen Puccinia sorghi1 3.
The pathogenic fungus of corn rust reproduces by producing rust spores (urediniospores) that are cinnamon brown in color and form elongated pustules on the leaf surface2 3. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of corn rust is airborne, as the rust spores are blown by the wind from the southern U.S. and Mexico to the northern U.S. in the summer4 3.
The period of disease onset for corn rust is usually in June or July, when young leaves are most susceptible to infection and pustules are more likely to form after corn silking2 3. The environmental conditions required for corn rust are cool temperatures (60 - 76 degrees F), heavy dews, about six hours of leaf wetness, and relative humidity greater than 95 percent2 3. Temperatures above 80 degrees F suppress disease development and spread2.
The overwintering method of corn rust is by surviving in the southern U.S. and Mexico where the fungus can infect corn plants year-round2 3.
Hybrid selection: Choosing corn hybrids with genetic disease resistance offers the best economical and effective defense against corn rusts and other foliar diseases1 2 3 4 5.
Scouting: Early and frequent scouting for diseases is a routine best management practice to tackle problems before they lead to economic damage1 2.
Cultural practices: Timely planting of corn early during the growing season may help to avoid high inoculum levels or environmental conditions that would promote disease development2 3.
Fungicides: Fungicides can also be beneficial, especially if applied early when few pustules have appeared on the leaves1 2 6 4 5.
["Chlorotic flecks on the leaf surface that develop into powdery, brick-red pustules as the spores break through the leaf surface1 3.", "Rust-colored to dark brown, elongated pustules on both leaf surfaces that contain rust spores (urediniospores) and darken as they age2 3.", "Leaf chlorosis and death under severe conditions2 3."]
["The presence of rust spores (urediniospores) that are cinnamon brown in color and form elongated pustules on the leaf surface2 3.", "The identification of the rust fungus (Puccinia sorghi) under microscopic examination2."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease: According to 1, there are two types of resistance to common rust of sweet corn: race-specific resistance and partial rust resistance. Race-specific resistance is controlled by major genes that confer immunity to specific races of the fungus. Partial rust resistance is controlled by minor genes that reduce the number and size of pustules, regardless of the race of the fungus. According to 2, resistant varieties are the most cost-effective means to manage southern rust in field corn. Several different races of the pathogen exist and some hybrids may have different levels of resistance to different races. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease: I could not find any information on a quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease. You may need to consult an expert or a laboratory for more details. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of the disease: According to 3, common rust spores land on foliage and within three to six hours of optimal conditions, germinate and infect the plant. The fungus produces hyphae that penetrate the leaf tissue and form haustoria inside the plant cells. The fungus then produces uredinia, which rupture the leaf surface and release urediniospores that can infect new leaves or plants. According to 4, southern rust spores also germinate on the leaf surface and penetrate the plant cells with hyphae and haustoria. The fungus produces uredinia on the upper leaf surface only, which release urediniospores that can spread the disease. The pathogen also produces telia, which produce teliospores that are not important for disease development. The pathogen has a complex interaction with maize involving multiple pathogenic effectors that modulate plant immunity and susceptibility. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease: I could not find any information on the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease. Corn rust is caused by a fungal pathogen, not a bacterial one. 