Spinach is a horticultural crop that is grown for its edible leaves1. Spinach black spot disease is a fungal disease caused by the fungus Cladosporium variabile1 2.
The mode of reproduction of the pathogenic fungus of this disease is by conidia, which are asexual spores that are produced in chains on the surface of the leaf spots1. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of this disease are influenced by environmental factors, such as temperature, humidity, rainfall, and irrigation. The fungus can survive on infected plant debris and seeds, and can be dispersed by wind, water, insects, or human activities1.
The period of disease onset for this disease is usually in the late summer or autumn, when the weather is cool and wet1. However, the disease can also occur at other times of the year if the conditions are favorable3. The environmental conditions required for the disease are high humidity, low temperature (below 20Г‚В°C), and free water on the leaf surface1. The disease is more severe on older leaves than on younger ones2.
The overwintering method of this disease is by surviving on infected plant debris and seeds in the soil or on the surface1. The fungus can also infect other hosts, such as beetroot, chard, and quinoa1.
Few products are labeled specifically for Cladosporium leaf spot in spinach and little research has been conducted on chemical control of this disease. QoI fungicides, commonly known as strobilurins, (FRAC Group 11) have been shown to effectively control this disease1. However, resistance to this group of fungicides has been reported in other crops and regions, so they should be used with caution and in rotation with other fungicides with different modes of action1.
Infected plant debris and seeds should be buried or destroyed to reduce the inoculum source2 3. Infected leaves can be removed and discarded to prevent further spread of the disease4.
There is no information on biological control of this disease.
The following practices can help reduce the risk and severity of the disease2 3: Start with certified, disease-free seed, or treat seed with hot water or fungicides. Rotate to non-host crops (outside of the Chenopodium family) for 2-3 years. If disease is present, do a once-over cut rather than cutting chard or spinach for regrowth. Avoid planting succession crops close together. Manage irrigation (if used) to avoid prolonged leaf wetness durations. Increase air circulation and reduce humidity by using wider plant spacing and weed control. Avoid working in the field when the foliage is wet to prevent mechanical transmission of the fungus.
["Small, circular to irregular spots on the leaves that are initially yellowish-green or brownish-red2 3.", "As the spots mature, they become olive-black and may coalesce to form large necrotic areas2 3.", "The spots may have a concentric ring pattern or a dark margin2 3.", "The infected leaves may curl, dry up, and fall off2 3.", "The ripening seed on spinach seed crops may also develop lesions, shrivel, and become infected with the fungus2."]
["The presence of dark brown to black conidia (asexual spores) on the surface of the leaf spots2 3. The conidia are produced in chains and have a cylindrical shape with rounded ends3.", "The conidia can be observed with a hand lens or a microscope3."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is not well studied, but some information can be found in the literature. For example, one study found that spinach genotypes showed a skewed distribution for Stemphylium leaf spot resistance, with a range from 0.2% to 23.5% disease severity, suggesting that Stemphylium leaf spot resistance in spinach is a complex, quantitative trait1. Another study screened the entire U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) spinach germplasm collection and 22 commercial cultivars for resistance to leaf spot caused by Stemphylium botryosum and found that only two accessions (PI 169418 and PI 169419) showed high levels of resistance2 3. The mechanism of resistance and the type of resistance agent are not clear, but the authors suggested that resistance may be controlled by a single dominant gene or a few genes with major effects2 3. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is not available, but some methods have been developed for other related fungi. For example, one method uses polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with specific primers to detect and identify <em>Stemphylium vesicarium</em>, the causal agent of brown spot of pear. Another method uses loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) with species-specific primers to detect and identify <em>Stemphylium lycopersici</em>, the causal agent of gray leaf spot of tomato. These methods may be adapted or modified for the detection and identification of <em>Stemphylium variabile</em>, the causal agent of spinach black spot disease. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of the disease is not well understood, but some studies have investigated the pathogenicity factors of Stemphylium variable and other related fungi. For example, one study found that a polygalacturonase gene (Pgv1) was involved in the pathogenicity of Stemphylium variable on spinach leaves. Another study found that a nonribosomal peptide synthetase gene (Nps6) was involved in the biosynthesis of stemphyltoxin III, a phytotoxin produced by <em>Stemphylium botryosum</em>. These genes may encode for pathogenic effectors that facilitate the infection and colonization of the host plant by the fungus. The differences in infestation of different plants may depend on the host specificity and host resistance of the fungus and the plant, respectively. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease are not known, but some studies have suggested some possible candidates. For example, one study found that a transcription factor gene (SvMyb1) was upregulated in spinach leaves infected by Stemphylium variabile and that its overexpression in Arabidopsis thaliana enhanced susceptibility to fungal pathogens. Another study found that a receptor-like kinase gene (SlSERK3) was downregulated in tomato leaves infected by <em>Stemphylium lycopersici</em> and that its overexpression in tomato enhanced resistance to fungal pathogens. These genes may be involved in host defense responses and may be modulated by the fungus to promote or suppress disease development. 