Citrus canker affects citrus plants, which are a type of horticultural crop that are grown for their fruits and ornamental value1 2. Citrus canker is a bacterial disease caused by the bacterium Xanthomonas citri (previously known as Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri)1 2.
The mode of reproduction of the pathogenic bacterium of citrus canker is by binary fission, which is a type of asexual reproduction that involves splitting into two identical cells3. The bacterium also produces conidia, which are asexual spores that can be dispersed by wind and rain1. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of citrus canker are influenced by several factors, such as climate, host susceptibility, inoculum source, and human activity4. The disease is more prevalent in warm and humid regions, where the bacteria can survive and multiply on plant surfaces5. The disease can infect all citrus species, but some cultivars are more resistant than others5. The main source of inoculum is the lesions on infected leaves, stems, and fruits, which ooze bacterial cells that can be spread by windblown rain, insects, or contaminated equipment1 5. Human activity can also contribute to the spread of the disease by moving infected or apparently healthy plants, untreated infected fruit, or infected tools1 5.
The period of disease onset for citrus canker depends on the environmental conditions and the host plant, but generally it ranges from 14 days to several months after infection5. Symptoms usually appear first on young leaves and fruits, which are more susceptible than older ones5. The environmental conditions required for citrus canker are mainly warm temperatures (between 20°C and 30°C) and high humidity (above 90%)5. The disease also requires wetness on plant surfaces for at least 6 hours for infection to occur5. The soil conditions are not very important for the disease, as the bacterium does not survive well in soil5.
The overwintering method of citrus canker is by surviving on infected plant tissues that remain attached to the host plant or fall to the ground5. The bacterium can also survive on asymptomatic plants that show no visible symptoms but are still infected5. The bacterium does not form any resistant structures or spores that can survive harsh conditions5.
Chemical control: 0.5~0.8kg Copper(II) sulfate in Bordeaux mixture, 1~1.6kg lime, 100kg water, 0.25kg Copper(II) sulfate in copper soap liquid, 1kg rosin mixture, 100kg water, 0.2~0.3 Baume degree of sulfur mixture, 2500 times 72% agricultural Streptomycin wettable powder, 300 times 3% sclerotin water solution, 77% kill 2000 type 800 times liquid, 400~600 times 80% essential wettable powder, 500 times 20% Ronck fungicidal copper suspension 12% chlorothalin emulsifiable concentrate 500 times, 84% kingtong water dispersible granule 1000-2000 times, 86% Bordeaux mixture water dispersible granule 500-750 times.
Seed disinfection: First, soak in hot water at 50-52℃ for 5 minutes, then soak in warm water at 55-58 ℃ for 50 minutes. After removal, drop it into room temperature water to cool down, and the surface should be slightly dry before sowing Sterilization of seedlings and scions: non budding and non soiled seedlings and scions shall be soaked in 0.1% mercuric chloride solution for 3 minutes and washed, soiled seedlings shall be sprayed with 0.8% Bordeaux mixture solution, and sprouted seedlings shall be soaked in 700 units of Streptomycin per milliliter plus 0.1% alcohol as an auxiliary agent for 30 to 60 minutes.biological_control

Agricultural control: ① Timely carry out prevention and control of leafminer moths, butterfly butterflies, elephant beetles, etc. ② Timely remove summer shoots and some early autumn shoots, and release them uniformly at the end of July or August If diseased leaves, branches, or fruits are found, they should be promptly cut off and the diseased spots on the tree trunk should be scraped off after the dew on the leaf surface dries up; Plants that are particularly susceptible to the disease should be uprooted as a whole and sealed with a stone sulfur mixture.
["Citrus canker are lesions on leaves, stems, and fruits that have a raised, brown, water-soaked margin and a yellow halo1 2. The lesions may have a corky appearance and a crater-like center1 2. The lesions may also ooze bacterial cells that can spread the disease1 2. The symptoms usually appear within 14 days to several months after infection3. The symptoms may vary depending on the citrus species and cultivar3."]
["Citrus canker are the physical evidence of the bacterium itself on the plant.", "The bacterium can be detected by using molecular techniques such as PCR-based assays that amplify specific DNA sequences of the pathogen3. The bacterium can also be isolated by culturing methods that use selective media and biochemical tests to identify the pathogen3. The bacterium can also be observed by microscopy methods that use staining techniques or fluorescent probes to visualize the pathogen3."]
The phytopathogenic fungus that causes citrus canker is Phytophthora spp.1 2. The mechanism of resistance to this fungus involves the activation of salicylic acid (SA)-signaling pathway and the production of reactive oxygen species3. The type of resistance agent is not clear, but some rhizobacteria strains such as Burkholderia territorii strain A63, Burkholderia metallica strain A53, and Pseudomonas geniculata strain 95 have been shown to induce systemic resistance against citrus canker disease by rhizobacteria3. The level of resistance varies depending on the citrus variety and the environmental conditions. Some varieties such as trifoliate oranges and many of its hybrids, as well as sour orange and alemow are considered very resistant, while others such as Rangpur lime, Cleopatra mandarin, and many lines of rough lemon are more susceptible1. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is not available in the literature I searched. However, some methods for detecting and identifying Phytophthora spp. include isolation on selective media, molecular techniques such as PCR and DNA sequencing, and serological assays such as ELISA and immunofluorescence. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of the disease involves the penetration of the fungus into the plant tissues through natural openings or wounds, and the production of enzymes and toxins that degrade the cell wall and cause necrosis. The type and number of pathogenic effectors are not well known, but some candidates include necrosis-inducing proteins (NIPs), elicitins, and cellulases. The differences in infestation of different plants depend on the susceptibility or resistance of the host, as well as the virulence or aggressiveness of the pathogen. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease are not clear, but some studies have suggested that a gene called DMR6 may be involved in modulating citrus resistance to both bacterial canker and citrus greening diseases4. Knockout or mutation of this gene may result in increased susceptibility to these diseases4. 