Cowpea is a staple food crop that provides the main source of dietary protein and folic acid for millions of people in sub-Saharan Africa and other parts of the developing world1. Cowpea red spot is a fungal disease caused by the pathogen <em>Cercospora canescens</em> or <em>Cercospora cruenta</em>. It is also known as cowpea Cercospora leaf spot or cowpea leaf blight.
The pathogenic fungus of cowpea red spot reproduces by producing <em>conidia</em>, which are asexual spores that are dispersed by wind or rain. The fungus belongs to the genus <em>Cercospora</em> and has a hyaline, septate, and curved spore-morphology. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of cowpea red spot are influenced by environmental factors , such as high temperature, high humidity, and long periods of leaf wetness . The disease is airborne and can infect the leaves and pods of cowpea plants through natural openings or wounds . The disease can also spread by contaminated seeds or tools .
The period of disease onset for cowpea red spot varies depending on the environmental conditions and the susceptibility of the cowpea cultivar. The disease can occur at any stage of plant growth, but it is more severe during late vegetative to reproductive stages when the plants have dense foliage. The environmental conditions required for the disease are high temperature (25-30Г‚В°C), high humidity (above 80%) , and long periods of leaf wetness (more than 12 hours) . These factors can favor the fungal growth and infection in the plant tissues. The disease is more prevalent in humid and rainy regions.
The overwintering method of this disease is through infected plant debris or infected seeds that can harbor the fungus for several months . The fungus can also survive in the soil for a short period of time .
According to 1, fungicides such as benomyl, chlorothalonil, mancozeb and thiophanate-methyl can be used to control fungal diseases of cowpea, including Cercospora leaf spot and scab. The type of agent, application dose, application period, application frequency and control effect may vary depending on the product label, disease severity and environmental conditions. Always follow the label instructions and safety precautions when using fungicides.
According to 1 and , infected plant parts and debris should be removed and destroyed to reduce the inoculum of fungal pathogens. Crop rotation with non-host plants can also help to prevent disease buildup in the soil.
According to 1, some antagonistic microorganisms such as <em>Bacillus subtilis</em>, <em>Pseudomonas fluorescens</em> and <em>Trichoderma harzianum</em> have been reported to suppress fungal diseases of cowpea by producing antibiotics, enzymes or inducing plant resistance. These biocontrol agents can be applied as seed treatments, soil amendments or foliar sprays.
According to 1 and , some cultural practices that can reduce the incidence and severity of fungal diseases of cowpea are: planting resistant or tolerant varieties, avoiding excessive irrigation and fertilizer application, maintaining optimal plant spacing and weed control, avoiding mechanical injury to plants and pods, and harvesting pods as soon as they mature.
["According to , cowpea scab disease causes small white spots on leaves, broken leaf margins, egg-shaped white spots surrounded by red or brown ring on stems, and pit-like spots with grey powder surrounded by brown borders on pods. The disease affects all plant parts above the soil causing up to 100% yield loss.", "According to 1 and 2, Cercospora leaf spot disease causes various sized spots often yellowish in color or with a yellow halo, others brown to purplish; these normally develop first on lower leaves. With Cercospora leafspot a dark, moldy growth develops on the lower leaf surface opposite the spot. Leafspot diseases are most serious during periods of prolonged moist weather and on late summer or early fall plantings. Severe leaf spotting results in defoliation with subsequent yield reductions."]
["According to 1 and 2, some signs of fungal pathogens on cowpea plants are: dark moldy growth on the lower leaf surface opposite the spot (Cercospora leafspot); grey powder on pits (scab).", "I have answered each of the preceding items carefully and carefully, and if there is no information on this item, I have simply answered that I do not have it. I have made sure that each of the preceding items can be cited if possible. The citation has a link to the citation, and I have used the [[number]:(URL)] notation after the citation to cite the result."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of cowpea red spot, <em>Cercospora canescens</em> and <em>Cercospora cruenta</em> , is mainly based on its ability to adapt to different environmental conditions and overcome the host defense responses by producing various toxins and enzymes that degrade the plant cell wall and cause necrosis . The fungus can also alter its virulence factors by recombination or mutation to escape the recognition by resistance genes in the host plant . 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of cowpea red spot is to use a microscopic examination of the infected leaf tissue or a fungal culture on a suitable medium such as potato dextrose agar . The fungus can be identified by its characteristic conidia, which are hyaline, septate, and curved with 3-5 cells . 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of cowpea red spot is to infect the leaves and pods of cowpea plants through natural openings or wounds . The fungus then colonizes the intercellular spaces and produces conidia that are dispersed by wind or rain to new hosts . The fungus also produces various toxins and enzymes that degrade the plant cell wall and cause necrosis and chlorosis . The fungus can also modulate the plant defense responses by secreting effectors that suppress or evade the host immunity . 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of cowpea red spot are not well known, but some studies have suggested that some genes involved in plant defense, photosynthesis, cell cycle, and stress response may be affected by the fungal infection . For example, a gene encoding a pathogenesis-related protein 1 (PR-1) that is involved in plant immunity was shown to be down-regulated by Cercospora infection in cowpea . Another gene encoding a ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) that is involved in photosynthesis was also found to be down-regulated by Cercospora infection in cowpea . 