Cereal millet is a group of small-seeded grasses that are grown as staple food crops or forage in many parts of the world. The most common cereal millets are pearl millet, finger millet, foxtail millet, proso millet, and sorghum1. Black sheath disease is a fungal disease that affects the leaf sheaths of cereal millet, especially pearl millet and finger millet. The causal agent is <em>Magnaporthe grisea</em> (syn. <em>Pyricularia grisea</em>), which also causes blast disease in rice and other cereals2 3.
The mode of reproduction of the pathogenic fungus of this disease is by conidia, which are asexual spores that are produced on specialized structures called conidiophores2. The conidia are dispersed by wind or rain splash and infect the leaf sheaths of susceptible plants. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of this disease are influenced by environmental factors such as temperature, humidity, rainfall, and cropping system. The disease is more severe in warm and humid conditions and in continuous or intensive cropping of cereal millets4. The disease can also be transmitted by infected seeds or plant debris3.
The period of disease onset for this disease varies depending on the crop and the environmental conditions. In pearl millet, the disease can appear at any stage of crop growth, but is more common during the flowering and grain-filling stages2. In finger millet, the disease can occur from seedling to maturity stage, but is more severe at the tillering stage3. The environmental conditions required for the disease are high temperature (25-30Г‚В°C) and high relative humidity (80-100%) for conidial germination and infection2. The disease is also favored by frequent rainfall or irrigation, which provides free water on the leaf surface3.
The overwintering method of this disease is by the survival of the fungus on infected seeds or plant debris in the soil or on alternate hosts such as weeds or other cereals2 3. The fungus can also produce sexual spores called ascospores in specialized structures called <em>perithecia</em>, which can survive for longer periods in unfavorable conditions2.
According to one source1, the soil application of FYM pre-colonized with <em>Trichoderma asperellum</em> + <em>Pseudomonas fluorescens + Bacillus subtilis</em> was found to be most effective and promising for enhancing growth, yield, economics and resistance against sheath blight disease in barnyard millet incited by <em>Rhizoctonia solani</em>.
Another source2 suggests that utilizing host-plant resistance is a viable strategy to circumvent blast disease in rice caused by <em>Magnaporthe</em> spp.
A third source3 reports that fluorescent <em>Pseudomonas</em> spp. showed significant antagonistic activity against <em>Pyricularia grisea</em>, <em>Rhizoctonia solani</em> and <em>Sclerotium rolfsii </em>causing blast, sheath blight and foot rot diseases of finger millet.

["According to one source4, the symptoms of sheath blight disease include water-soaked lesions on the leaf sheaths that enlarge and coalesce to form large irregular tan or grayish-green blotches. The lesions may have a dark brown margin and may be covered with a white cottony growth of the fungus. The infected leaves may wither and die prematurely.", "Another source4 states that the symptoms of blast disease vary depending on the plant part infected. On leaves and leaf collars, blast appears as small diamond-shaped or elliptical gray-green or gray-white spots with a brown margin. The spots may enlarge and coalesce to form large necrotic areas. On panicles, blast causes brown or black lesions on the rachis, pedicels and glumes. The infected spikelets may become sterile or discolored."]
["According to one source4, the signs of sheath blight disease include the presence of hyphae, sclerotia and mycelial fans of the fungus <em>Rhizoctonia solani</em> on the infected plant tissues. The sclerotia are small, round, dark brown to black structures (stroma) that can survive in the soil or plant debris. The mycelial fans are dense masses of hyphae that grow between the leaf sheaths and stems.", "Another source4 indicates that the signs of blast disease include the presence of spores, conidia and appressoria of the fungus <em>Magnaporthe</em> spp. on the infected plant tissues. The spores are small, oval, hyaline to pale brown structures that are produced in chains on conidiophores. The conidia are larger, pyriform, hyaline to pale brown structures that are produced singly on conidiophores. The appressoria are flattened, melanized structures that form at the tips of germ tubes and help the fungus penetrate the plant cells."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is not well studied, but some factors that may contribute to its resistance are genetic diversity, host specificity, pathogenicity genes and environmental adaptation1. The type of resistance agent may vary depending on the crop and the fungal strain, but some examples are fungicides, biocontrol agents, resistant varieties and cultural practices2 3 4. The level of resistance may depend on the dose and timing of the resistance agent, the genetic background of the crop and the fungus, and the environmental conditions2 3 4. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is by using a microscopic examination of the infected leaf sheaths or seeds, where the presence of conidia or perithecia can be observed1. Another method is by using a molecular detection technique such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP), where specific DNA sequences of the fungus can be amplified and detected1. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of the disease is by the infection of the leaf sheaths by the conidia of the fungus, which germinate and penetrate the plant tissue through natural openings or wounds1. The fungus then colonizes the intercellular spaces and produces hyphae that grow along the leaf sheaths and cause necrotic lesions1. The fungus also produces pathogenic effectors that modulate the plant defense responses and facilitate its infection1. The type and number of pathogenic effectors may vary depending on the fungal strain and the host plant, but some examples are avirulence genes, toxins, hydrolytic enzymes and small secreted proteins1. The differences in infestation of different plants may depend on their genetic susceptibility or resistance to the fungus, as well as their morphological and physiological characteristics1. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease are not clear, as there is no evidence of bacterial involvement in this disease. However, some possible targets for other bacterial diseases of cereal millets are genes involved in plant immunity, such as receptor-like kinases, nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat proteins, mitogen-activated protein kinases and transcription factors. Another possible target is genes involved in plant growth and development, such as phytohormone biosynthesis and signaling genes, which may affect the plant's resistance or susceptibility to pathogens. 