Beans are grown for their seeds, which are used for human consumption or animal feed. Beans are considered a staple crop or a cash crop depending on the market demand, consumer pattern and cultivation practices. Bean angular leaf spot is a bacterial disease that affects beans (Phaseolus spp.), a widely cultivated legume crop in temperate and tropical regions.



Copper-based fungicides can be used to reduce the severity of the disease, but they are not very effective once symptoms appear. The type, dose, period and frequency of application depend on the product label instruction and local regulations. For example, one product recommends applying 0.5-2 kg/ha of copper oxychloride every 7-14 days1.
Infected plant parts should be removed and destroyed to prevent further spread of the disease. Infected seeds should not be used for planting1 2.
There is no effective biological control agent for this disease.
Crop rotation with non-host plants for at least two years can reduce the inoculum in the soil. Planting resistant varieties, if available, can also help prevent the disease. Avoiding overhead irrigation and high plant density can reduce the humidity and favor the disease development3 1 2.
["Leaves develop small, angular, brown or straw-colored spots with a yellow halo. The spots are confined within the leaf veins and do not cross over. The spots may dry out and drop out, leaving irregular holes in the leaves3 4 1 5 2.", "Fruits develop small, circular, water-soaked spots that may turn chalky white and crack open. The cracks may allow secondary infections that cause fruit rot3 4 1."]
["Sticky drops of whitish liquid form on the underside of the leaf when wet, dry to a crust when dry. These are bacterial exudates that contain the pathogen3 4.", "The pathogen can be isolated from infected plant tissues and identified by microscopic examination or molecular techniques1."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic bacterium of the disease, Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola, is mainly due to its ability to produce toxins that interfere with the plant defense system. The bacterium can produce different types of toxins, such as phaseolotoxin, tabtoxin and syringomycin, depending on the strain and the environmental conditions. These toxins can inhibit key enzymes in plant metabolism, such as ornithine carbamoyltransferase, glutamine synthetase and phospholipase A2, respectively1 2 3. The bacterium can also produce effector proteins that suppress plant immunity and manipulate host processes4. The level of resistance of the bacterium to different control agents varies depending on the strain and the mode of action of the agent. For example, some strains are resistant to copper-based fungicides due to the presence of plasmids that encode copper resistance genes5. 
A quick test for the phytopathogenic bacterium of the disease is by using a fluorescence microscope to observe the bacterial colonies on a selective medium. The bacterium produces a yellow-green fluorescent pigment called pyoverdine that can be detected under ultraviolet light. Another quick test is by using a serological assay such as enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or immunofluorescence assay (IFA) to detect the presence of specific antibodies against the bacterium in plant samples. 
The mechanism of infestation by the phytopathogenic bacterium of the disease is by entering the plant through natural openings such as stomata or wounds caused by insects, tools or weather. The bacterium then colonizes the intercellular spaces of the leaf mesophyll and produces toxins and effectors that cause necrosis and chlorosis of the leaf tissue1 4. The bacterium can also move systemically within the plant through the xylem vessels and infect other parts such as stems and pods. The differences in infestation of different plants depend on the host susceptibility, the bacterial strain and the environmental conditions. Some plants have genetic resistance to certain strains of the bacterium, while others are more susceptible due to their physiological or morphological characteristics. 
Ornithine carbamoyltransferase (OCTase), an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of citrulline from ornithine and carbamoyl phosphate. The bacterium produces phaseolotoxin, a tripeptide that inhibits OCTase and causes arginine deficiency and chlorosis in plants1 2. Glutamine synthetase (GS), an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of glutamine from glutamate and ammonia. The bacterium produces tabtoxin, a dipeptide that inhibits GS and causes glutamine deficiency and necrosis in plants1 3. Phospholipase A2 (PLA2), an enzyme that hydrolyzes phospholipids and releases fatty acids and lysophospholipids. The bacterium produces syringomycin, a lipodepsipeptide that activates PLA2 and causes membrane damage and cell death in plants1 3. Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), proteins that recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and trigger plant immunity. The bacterium produces effector proteins that interfere with PRR signaling and suppress plant defense responses4. 