The type of crop of this plant is a cash crop1, as hops are mainly grown for brewing beer and other beverages. The type of disease of this disease is an oomycete disease2 3 4, caused by the fungus-like organism Pseudoperonospora humuli2 3 4.
The mode of reproduction of the pathogenic fungus of this disease is a mobile spore, called a zoospore2 3 4, which is produced inside a sac-like structure called a sporangium2 3 4. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of this disease are airborne, as the sporangia are dispersed by wind and rain5 6. The zoospores can also swim in water films on plant surfaces and infect through stomata or wounds2 3 4.
The period of disease onset for this disease is spring, when new shoots emerge from infected buds or crowns2 6. The disease can continue to develop throughout the season if environmental conditions are favorable2 6. The environmental conditions required for the disease are cool and humid, as the pathogen thrives in temperatures between 60В°F and 68В°F and high moisture levels2 6. Leaf wetness duration of at least 1.5 hours is critical for leaf and shoot infection2 6.
The overwintering method of this disease is infected buds or crowns, which serve as sources of inoculum for the next season2 3 4. The pathogen may also produce oospores, which are sexual spores that can survive in soil or plant debris3 4.
There are several fungicides that can be used to prevent or reduce hops downy mildew infection, such as copper-based products, phosphorous acid products, mefenoxam, dimethomorph, mandipropamid, and others1. The application dose, period, number of applications, and control effect may vary depending on the product label, the disease severity, the environmental conditions, and the hop cultivar1. It is important to follow the label instructions and rotate fungicides with different modes of action to avoid resistance development1.
One of the physical measures that can help reduce hops downy mildew infection is pruning or removing the infected shoots (spikes) in early spring before training1 2. This can reduce the inoculum source and prevent further spread of the disease1 2. Another physical measure is to avoid overhead irrigation or reduce the duration and frequency of irrigation to minimize leaf wetness1 2.
There is limited information on biological control of hops downy mildew. Some studies have suggested that certain strains of Bacillus subtilis may have some suppressive effect on the disease3, but more research is needed to confirm their efficacy and safety3.
Some agricultural practices that can help prevent or manage hops downy mildew include:Planting certified disease-free hop plants1 2,Choosing resistant or tolerant hop cultivars1 2,Providing adequate spacing and ventilation for hop plants1 2,Removing or destroying infected plant debris at the end of the season1 2,Applying lime sulfur or copper-based products to hop crowns before bud break1 2
["The main symptoms of hops downy mildew are the so-called spikes, which are systemically infected shoots that arise from infected hop crowns, apical meristems, or lateral branches1 2. The spikes are stunted with shortened internodes and pale green leaves that are brittle and curl upward1 2. The spikes become fragile and desiccate during dry weather1 2.", "Another symptom of hops downy mildew is leaf infection, which appears as angular brown spots on the upper surface of the leaves and purple-gray to black downy growth on the lower surface of the leaves1 2. The spots may coalesce and cause leaf distortion and necrosis1 2.", "A third symptom of hops downy mildew is cone infection, which occurs when the pathogen infects the leaf-like structures within the cone such as bracts and bracteoles1 2. The infected cones become brown, harden, and are affected in their development and quality1 2."]
["The main sign of hops downy mildew is the presence of sporangiophores and sporangia of the pathogen Pseudoperonospora humuli on the underside of infected leaves or cones4 [5. The sporangiophores are branched structures that bear lemon-shaped sporangia at their tips (Figure 1)4. The sporangia are asexual spores that can detach from the sporangiophores and be dispersed by wind or rain to infect new host tissues4.", "Another sign of hops downy mildew is the formation of oospores, which are sexual spores that result from the fusion of two compatible mating types of P. humuli4. Oospores are thick-walled structures that can survive in infected plant tissues or soil for long periods4. Oospores may play a role in the overwintering and survival of the pathogen4."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is variable, depending on the fungicide class and the pathogen population1 2. The mechanism of resistance is mutation in the target site or efflux of the fungicide out of the cell1 2. The type of resistance agent is fungicide, such as QoI, DMI, phenylamide, and phosphonate1 2. The level of resistance is high for QoI and phenylamide, moderate for DMI, and low for phosphonate1 2. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP), which is a molecular technique that can detect the pathogen DNA in plant samples within an hour3 4. The method is simple, rapid, sensitive, and specific3 4. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of the disease is biotrophy, which means the pathogen depends on living host cells for its survival and reproduction3 4. The type and number of pathogenic effectors are unknown, as there is limited genomic information available for the pathogen3 4. However, some studies have identified candidate effectors that may be involved in suppressing host immunity or manipulating host metabolism3 4. The differences in infestation of different plants are significant, as the pathogen is highly host-specific and can only infect hop and Japanese hop5. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease are unknown, as there is no information on knockout lethal genes or essential genes for the pathogen3 4. However, some studies have suggested that targeting the pathogen's cell wall biosynthesis, signal transduction, or metabolic pathways may be effective strategies for developing novel control methods3 4. 