Hawthorn is a horticultural crop that is grown for its ornamental value, edible fruits and medicinal properties1 2. Hawthorn leaf spot disease is a fungal disease caused by the fungus Diplocarpon mespili (sexual stage) or Entomosporium mespili (asexual stage)3 1 4 2 5.
The mode of reproduction of the pathogenic fungus of this disease is by producing conidia (asexual spores) that are dispersed by rain splash or wind1 2. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of this disease are influenced by cool and wet weather conditions that favor spore germination and infection of leaves and green shoots6 4. The disease cycle involves repeated cycles of spore production and infection throughout the spring and summer4.
The period of disease onset for this disease is in the early summer, when the first symptoms of leaf spots appear on infected leaves, green twigs and fruit1 2.
The overwintering method of this disease is by surviving in lesions on green twigs and fallen leaves4.
Fungicides can be applied during bud break and at 10-day intervals during wet weather to protect developing leaves and twigs on susceptible high value trees1. Some examples of fungicides that can be used are chlorothalonil, mancozeb, myclobutanil, propiconazole, thiophanate-methyl, and triadimefon2.
Collecting and destroying fallen leaves can reduce the amount of inoculum available to initiate subsequent spring infections3. Pruning infected branches and removing root suckers and water sprouts can also help prevent the spread of the disease4.

Planting resistant hawthorn species such as cockspur thorn, yellow fruited thorn, Crataegus intricata, and Crataegus pruinosa can prevent or reduce the severity of the disease4. Avoiding overhead irrigation and watering early in the day can also help reduce leaf wetness and spore germination3. Pruning and spacing trees well can increase air circulation and sunlight penetration so foliage dries quickly3.
["Numerous small red-purple spots develop on infected leaves, green twigs and fruit3. Several weeks after infection the spots often coalesce into purplish-gray-brown blotches3.", "By mid-summer the leaves turn prematurely yellow and drop from severely infected trees3.", "Green fruit is deformed by some types of rust fungi that infect hawthorns4."]
["Fruiting structures of the fungus Entomosporium mespili (asexual stage) or Diplocarpon mespili (sexual stage) arise in leaf spots and produce spores that are splashed by rain or wind onto new leaves3 1.", "Spore horns of the rust fungi Gymnosporangium globosum or Gymnosporangium clavipes emerge from infected fruit during the summer4."]


Differences in infestation of different plants: The fungus requires plants from two different families to complete its life cycle; one plant from the Cupressaceae family (red cedar, juniper) and the other from the Rosaceae family (crabapple, hawthorn, serviceberry, etc.)1 2 3. Symptoms are very different on each type of plant1 2 3. 
