Sorghum is a C4 tropical grass used for food, animal feed, forage, and bioenergy that is drought-tolerant and has lower nutrient requirements compared to many other grasses1. Anthracnose is a fungal disease caused by the destructive fungal pathogen Colletotrichum sublineola2 3 4.
The pathogenic fungus of anthracnose reproduces by producing conidia (asexual spores) that are dispersed by wind or rain splash4. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of anthracnose are influenced by environmental factors, such as temperature, humidity, rainfall, and plant age. The disease is more severe in warm and humid conditions, and young plants are more susceptible than older ones5. Anthracnose can also be transmitted by infected seeds or naturalized populations of lupins that act as alternative hosts1.
The period of disease onset for anthracnose varies depending on the environmental conditions and the plant growth stage. The disease can occur at any stage of plant development, but it is more common during the flowering and grain filling stages4. The environmental conditions required for the disease are warm temperatures (25-30В°C), high humidity (&gt;90%), and frequent rainfall or irrigation4. The disease also favors acidic soils with low pH and high organic matter4.
The overwintering method of anthracnose is through survival structures called sclerotia that form on infected plant debris or seeds. Sclerotia can persist in the soil for several years and germinate to produce conidia when conditions are favorable4.
Fungicides such as azoxystrobin, propiconazole, pyraclostrobin and tebuconazole can be applied to reduce anthracnose severity and increase yield1. The application dose, period and number of applications may vary depending on the product label and environmental conditions1.
Cutting off the infected parts of the plant can reduce the spread of the disease, but it may not be feasible in large-scale production2.
There is limited information on biological control of sorghum anthracnose, but some studies have reported the potential of antagonistic bacteria and fungi to inhibit the growth of Colletotrichum sublineola3.
The most effective and economical way to control anthracnose is to use resistant cultivars1. Crop rotation, sanitation, weed control and avoiding excess nitrogen fertilization can also help reduce the disease pressure1 2.
["Anthracnose can infect all above ground parts of the plant, including leaves, stems, peduncles and panicles3 2.", "The most common symptom is the appearance of small, oval to irregular-shaped lesions on the leaves, which are initially water-soaked and later turn tan to reddish-brown with dark brown margins1 2.", "The lesions may coalesce and cause extensive blighting of the leaves1 2.", "On the stems and peduncles, the lesions are sunken, elongated and dark brown to black, often with a reddish halo1 2.", "The infected stems and peduncles may break or lodge, resulting in reduced grain filling and yield loss1 2.", "On the panicles, the lesions are similar to those on the stems, but smaller and more scattered1 2.", "The infected grains may be shriveled, discolored or covered with pinkish fungal masses1 2."]
["The disease signs of sorghum anthracnose are the presence of the fungal pathogen Colletotrichum sublineola on the infected plant tissues3 1.", "The fungus produces acervuli (small black structures) that contain conidia (spores) on the surface of the lesions3 1.", "The conidia are hyaline (transparent), cylindrical to fusiform (spindle-shaped), and have one or two septa (cross-walls)3 1.", "The conidia are dispersed by rain splash or wind and can infect new plants or tissues3 1."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is mainly based on the presence of effector-triggered immunity (ETI) in the host plant, which involves the recognition of specific fungal effectors by plant resistance (R) genes1. The type of resistance agent is usually a nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (NLR) protein that can bind to the fungal effector and activate a defense response1. The level of resistance depends on the genetic diversity of both the host and the pathogen, as well as the environmental conditions that affect their interaction2. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is to use a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay that can detect the presence of Colletotrichum sublineola DNA in infected plant tissues3. This method requires a DNA extraction kit, a PCR machine, and specific primers that target a region of the fungal genome that is unique to C. sublineola3. The PCR products can be visualized by gel electrophoresis and compared with a positive control3. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of the disease is based on the infection cycle of C. sublineola, which involves four stages: spore germination, appressorium formation, penetration, and colonization1. The type and number of pathogenic effectors vary depending on the strain of C. sublineola and the host genotype1. For example, some strains produce a cutinase enzyme that degrades the plant cuticle and facilitates penetration4. Some strains also secrete a necrosis-inducing peptide that triggers cell death and tissue necrosis in susceptible hosts4. Differences in infestation of different plants are mainly due to the presence or absence of R genes that can recognize specific fungal effectors and trigger ETI1. For example, some sorghum cultivars have an R gene called SbCg1 that confers resistance to C. sublineola by recognizing an effector called CgEP11. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease are not well known, as C. sublineola is primarily 