Cucumber is a horticultural crop that belongs to the cucurbit family1. Bacterial angular spot disease of cucumber is a bacterial disease caused by <em>Pseudomonas syringae</em> pv. lachrymans2 1 3 4 5.
The pathogenic bacterium of this disease does not reproduce by spores, but by binary fission2. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of this disease are influenced by warm and humid conditions, splashing water, insects, contaminated seed, and infected plant debris6 3 4 5.
The period of disease onset for this disease varies depending on the environmental factors, but it usually appears in the early to mid-season4. The environmental conditions required for the disease are high humidity, warm temperatures (between 24В°C and 30В°C), and wet foliage1 3 5.
The overwintering method of this disease is by surviving on plant debris or infecting the seed1 3.
Applying copper-based bactericides or antibiotics such as streptomycin or oxytetracycline may reduce the spread of the disease if applied early and frequently1 2. However, these chemicals may have negative effects on the environment and human health, and may also induce resistance in the pathogen3.
Removing and destroying infected plant debris and fruit may reduce the inoculum source of the disease1 4. Cutting off the infected parts of the plant may also help, but care should be taken to avoid spreading the bacteria to healthy tissues4.
Using endophytic bacteria (EB) that colonize the plant tissues and inhibit the growth of the pathogen may be an effective and eco-friendly way of controlling the disease3. Some EB isolates such as Ochrobactrum sp. and Pantoea sp. have shown promising results in reducing disease severity and increasing yield in cucumber plants3.
Using pathogen-free seed from a reputable source and resistant varieties of cucumber are the most important preventive measures for this disease1 2 3. Rotating crops with non-cucurbit crops for at least two years may also reduce the soil-borne inoculum of the disease1 4. Using drip irrigation instead of overhead sprinklers or watering at the base of the plant may reduce the wetness of the foliage and the spread of the bacteria by splashing water1 4. Avoiding working in wet fields or working in clean sections first and infected sections last may also prevent the transmission of the bacteria by hands or tools1 2.
["Small, circular, water-soaked spots on the leaves that expand into large, angular to irregular, brown or straw-colored spots with a yellow halo5 1 4 2. The spots are confined by the leaf veins, giving them an angular appearance5 1 4.", "Leaf spots dry and drop out, leaving irregularly shaped holes in the leaves5 1 4.", "Water-soaked tan, small circular spots on fruit that may develop into bacterial soft rot and destroy the entire fruit5 1 4.", "Changes in color, shape or function of other plant parts such as stems and vines5."]
["Sticky drops of whitish liquid that form on the underside of the leaf when wet, which dry to a crust when dry5 1 4. These drops are bacterial ooze that contain millions of bacteria cells5.", "Isolation and identification of Pseudomonas syringae pv. lachrymans from infected plant tissues using microbiological or molecular methods5."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of bacterial angular spot disease of cucumber is not very clear from the search results. However, some sources suggest that resistance can be systemically induced in plants by inoculation with nonpathogens, by restricted inoculation with pathogens, or by treatment with chemicals1. Some resistant varieties of cucumber are also available2 3. Some cultural controls such as using drip irrigation, avoiding working in wet fields, and rotating crops can also reduce the spread of the disease3 4. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of bacterial angular spot disease of cucumber is not found in the search results. However, some sources describe the symptoms of the disease that can help in diagnosis. These include small, angular, brown or straw-colored spots on the leaves with a yellow halo; water-soaked tan spots on the fruit; and sticky drops of whitish liquid on the underside of the leaf3 5 6. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of bacterial angular spot disease of cucumber is also not very clear from the search results. However, some sources indicate that the disease is caused by the bacterium <em>Pseudomonas syringae</em> pv. lachrymans that can infect all cucurbit crops and all above ground parts of the plant3 5. The bacterium can move into new areas on seed and survive on plant debris3. It can also move from plant to plant on the hands and tools of workers, by insects or by splashing water3. The bacterium produces a drop of clear to white sticky bacterial ooze on infections when humidity is high3. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of bacterial angular spot disease of cucumber are not found in the search results. However, some sources mention that some endophytic bacteria can colonize cucumber plants and provide biocontrol against the disease by triggering induced systemic resistance or producing antimicrobial compounds7 8. These endophytic bacteria include <em>Bacillus pumilus</em>, <em>Flavimonas oryzihabitans</em>, <em>Serratia marcescens</em>, and <em>Pseudomonas putida</em>8. 