Onions are a type of horticultural crop1 2, which means they are grown for their edible parts and not for their seeds or fibers. Gray mold of onion is a fungal disease1 3 caused by various species of the genus <em>Botrytis</em>4 5, such as B. allii, <em>B. aclada, B. byssoidea</em>, and <em>B. squamosa</em>.
The mode of reproduction of the pathogenic fungus of this disease is by <em>conidia</em>4 5, which are asexual spores that are produced in large numbers and dispersed by wind or water. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of this disease are influenced by environmental factors such as temperature, humidity, and rainfall6 5. The fungus can infect the onion tissues through the neck or wounds in the bulb1. The disease can also be spread by infected plant debris, soil, or irrigation water4. The disease is more severe in plantings that are in heavy, damp soil or that are overwatered1.
The period of disease onset for this disease varies depending on the type of <em>Botrytis </em>species and the environmental conditions4. Symptoms of infection typically appear on the neck around the time of harvest, when tissues take on a water-soaked appearance with yellow discoloration1. A gray, fuzzy mold develops between the scales, and small black fungal structures (<em>sclerotia</em>) may be present around the neck1. Gray mold eventually results in a rot of the bulbs1. The environmental conditions required for the disease are high humidity and moderate to cool temperatures4 5. The optimal temperature range for infection is 15-20В°C (59-68В°F)4. The disease is favored by wet weather and poor ventilation1.
The overwintering method of this disease is by hard sclerotia black structures that can survive in the soil or on plant debris for several years4 5. Sclerotia can germinate and produce conidia under favorable conditions4.
Apply fungicides such as chlorothalonil at the first sign of leaf blight disease and repeat at 7- to 10-day intervals. Do not apply more than 3 times per season on green onions, leeks, or shallots. Fungicides do not consistently control bulb and neck rot diseases1.
Cut off infected parts and discard or destroy them. Do not compost diseased materials1.

Plant disease-free materials. Rotate crops. Do not plant garlic and related crops in the same locations each year. Do not overwater or overfertilize. Allow tops to mature before harvest. Cure bulbs 6-10 days before storage. Minimize bruising and injury during harvest. Store bulbs in cool, dry, well-ventilated locations1.
["Water-soaked appearance with yellow discoloration on the neck around the time of harvest1.", "Rot of the bulbs1.", "Mushy spots, brown spots, black spots, or a slimy texture on the onion2."]
["Gray, fuzzy mold between the scales1.", "Small black fungal structures (sclerotia) around the neck1 3.", "Fungal substrates on the plant4."]
I do not have enough information to answer this question. The search results did not provide any details on the resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease, such as the mechanism of resistance, the type of resistance agent, and the level of resistance, etc. I apologize for the inconvenience. 
I do not have enough information to answer this question. The search results did not provide any quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease. I apologize for the inconvenience. 
I do not have enough information to answer this question. The search results did not provide any details on the mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of the disease, such as the type and number of pathogenic effectors, differences in infestation of different plants, etc. I apologize for the inconvenience. 
I do not have enough information to answer this question. The search results did not provide any potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease, such as knockout lethal genes, etc. I apologize for the inconvenience. 