Onion is a horticultural crop that belongs to the family <em>Alliaceae</em>1 2. Purple spot disease of onion is a fungal disease caused by <em>Alternaria porri</em>1 2 3 4.
The mode of reproduction of the pathogenic fungus of this disease is by <em>conidia</em>, which are asexual spores that are produced on the surface of the lesions1 4. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of this disease are influenced by wind and rain, which disperse the conidia to other plants and fields5 3. The disease is more prevalent in warm and humid regions2 4.
The period of disease onset for this disease varies depending on the environmental conditions and the susceptibility of the plants. The disease often begins on older leaves as small, sunken, water-soaked lesions with light centers2 4. Symptoms appear 1-4 days after infection and black spores are produced by fresh lesions within 5 days2. The environmental conditions required for the disease are warm (77-85Â°F) and humid weather, and long periods of leaf surface wetness (â‰¥ 16 hours)2 3. The disease is also favored by excessive nitrogen fertilization and thrips infestation2 4.
The overwintering method of this disease is by mycelium in onion leaf debris from diseased plants, and in onion cull piles1 3.
Most commercial onion crops must be protected from purple blotch by using repeated applications of protective fungicides. Solutions based on the fungicides boscalid, chlorothalonil, fenamidone and mancozeb (all ranging from0.20 - 0.25%) can be sprayed preventively at fortnightly intervals starting one month after transplanting1 2.
Harvest onions in dry weather and avoid injury to the necks. Allow onions to cure properly before leaf removal. Store at 34-38掳F and humidity 65-70% in a well-aerated cooler2 3.
No effective biological control agents have been reported for this disease.
Start with pathogen-free seed/sets. Proper spacing of plants and regular weeding will increase air circulation and decrease the duration of leaf wetness. Avoid excessive nitrogen. Rotate out of onions for at least three years. Field sanitation is important; remove or plow under plant debris, and cull volunteer plants2 3.
["Small, sunken, water-soaked lesions with light centers on the leaves", "Lesions enlarge and turn purple to brown, often with yellow rings that create a distinctive bull鈥檚-eye pattern", "Leaves turn yellow/brown and wilt, and may be girdled", "Bulbs may become infected through neck wounds and show soft, water-soaked areas that turn dark reddish-purple, then brown/black2 3."]
["Black spores of <em>Alternaria porr</em>i that are produced on the surface of the lesions", "Spores are released in the morning as humidity decreases and are visible as dark dust2 3."]
The resistance of the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease, <em>A.porri</em>, is controlled by a single dominant gene designated as ApR11 2. This gene confers resistance to purple blotch disease of onion by reducing the lesion size and sporulation of the fungus2. Some onion genotypes have been identified as resistant or moderately resistant to A. porri based on in vitro and field evaluations1. 
A quick test method for the phytopathogenic fungus of the disease is to use a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay with specific primers that can amplify a fragment of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the fungal DNA3. This method can detect <em>A. porri</em> in onion tissues within 24 hours and can differentiate it from other Alternaria species3. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of the disease is not fully understood, but it involves the production of toxins and hydrolytic enzymes by the fungus that can degrade the plant cell wall and cause necrosis. The fungus also produces spores that can infect new plants through wind or rain dispersal4. The type and number of pathogenic effectors that interact with the plant immune system are unknown, but some studies have suggested that they may include necrosis-inducing proteins, cutinases, lipases, and proteases. The differences in infestation of different plants may depend on the genetic variation of both the host and the pathogen, as well as the environmental conditions. 
The potential targets of the phytopathogenic bacteria of the disease are not clear, as there is no evidence that bacteria are involved in purple blotch disease of onion. However, some studies have reported that onion plants can be co-infected by <em>A. porri</em> and other bacterial pathogens, such as <em>Pseudomonas syringae pv. porri</em>, which causes bacterial blight. In this case, the potential targets of the bacteria may include plant defense genes, such as resistance (R) genes, pathogenesis-related (PR) genes, and salicylic acid (SA) signaling genes. These genes are involved in activating the plant immune response against bacterial pathogens, but they may be suppressed or disrupted by bacterial effectors. 