Soybean is a cash crop that is grown for its edible seeds and oil1. Gray mold of soybean is a fungal disease caused by the fungus <em>Sclerotinia sclerotiorum</em>2 3, which also causes white mold or Sclerotinia stem rot.
The pathogenic fungus of this disease reproduces by producing hard sclerotia black structures that can survive in the soil for several years2 3. The sclerotia germinate near the soil surface to form small tan-to-gray mushroom-shaped structures called apothecia, which produce ascospores that spread via air currents to infect dead soybean flowers3. The epidemiological pattern and mode of transmission of this disease are influenced by environmental conditions, such as cool and moist weather, high humidity, and dense canopy4 3. The disease is more severe in fields with a history of white mold or other crops susceptible to <em>Sclerotinia sclerotiorum</em>, such as sunflower, canola, dry bean, and lentil2. The disease can also be spread by infected seeds or plant debris1.
The period of disease onset for this disease is usually from R3 to R6 growth stages of soybean, when the plants are flowering and podding2 3. The infection then spreads into the stems and causes lesions, wilting, and death of the plant tissue2 3. The environmental conditions required for the disease are cool temperatures (below 85Г‚В°F), high humidity (above 70%), and wet conditions (more than 10 hours of wetness per day) during flowering and podding stages2 3. The disease also favors dense plant populations, narrow row spacing, high soil fertility, and irrigation2 3.
The overwintering method of this disease is by sclerotia that can survive in the soil for several years or on infected plant debris that remains on the soil surface2 3.
Applying fungicides that are effective against <em>Sclerotinia sclerotiorum</em>, such as boscalid, fluopyram, prothioconazole, thiophanate-methyl, and others1 2 3. The fungicides should be applied preventively at the beginning of flowering (R1) or when the disease risk is high2 3. The application dose, number of applications, and control effect may vary depending on the product label and the environmental conditions2 3.
Removing and destroying infected plant parts or debris to reduce the inoculum source4 2. Avoiding mechanical damage or wounding of the plants that can facilitate infection2.
Using biological agents that can antagonize or parasitize the pathogen, such as <em>Trichoderma</em> spp., <em>Coniothyrium minitans, Bacillus subtilis</em>, and others1 2. The biological agents should be applied before or during flowering to prevent infection2.
Adopting cultural practices that can reduce the disease pressure, such as crop rotation with non-host crops, planting resistant or tolerant soybean varieties, adjusting planting date and row spacing to avoid dense canopy, managing irrigation and soil fertility to avoid excessive plant growth, and using cover crops that can stimulate sclerotia germination before soybean flowering2 5 6.
["Gray to white lesions at the nodes that expand and girdle the stem2 5.", "Wilting, yellowing, and death of the upper leaves and branches2 5.", "Infected pods that become bleached and shrunken2 5.", "Infected seeds that are cracked, shriveled, and dull4 2."]
["Fluffy white growth of fungal mycelium on the stem lesions or pods2 5.", "Black sclerotia inside or outside the stem or pods2 5.", "Tan-to-gray mushroom-shaped apothecia emerging from sclerotia near the soil surface5."]
The mechanism of resistance is not well understood, but it may involve mutations or alterations in the target site or metabolic pathway of the fungicide, or enhanced detoxification or efflux of the fungicide1. The type of resistance agent may vary depending on the fungicide group and mode of action. For example, some isolates of <em>Sclerotinia sclerotiorum</em> have shown resistance to benzimidazole fungicides (Group 1), which inhibit beta-tubulin synthesis, or dicarboximide fungicides (Group 2), which affect osmoregulation and signal transduction1 2. The level of resistance may also vary depending on the fungicide group and mode of action. For example, some isolates of <em>Sclerotinia sclerotiorum</em> have shown high levels of resistance to benzimidazole fungicides (Group 1), moderate levels of resistance to dicarboximide fungicides (Group 2), and low levels of resistance to demethylation inhibitor fungicides (Group 3), which inhibit ergosterol biosynthesis1 2. 
A simple and reliable method to test for the presence of <em>Sclerotinia sclerotiorum</em> is to use a selective medium called oxalic acid-amended potato dextrose agar (OA-PDA)3. This medium inhibits the growth of most other fungi but allows <em>Sclerotinia sclerotiorum</em> to grow and produce characteristic white colonies with black sclerotia3. A more robust method to test for resistance is to use a direct inoculation method by removing a portion of a soybean petiole and placing the fungus on the cut petiole4. The petioles are then incubated in a moist chamber and scored for lesion length after seven days4. The lesion length indicates the level of resistance or susceptibility of the soybean variety to the fungus4. 
The mechanism of phytopathogenic infestation of <em>Sclerotinia sclerotiorum</em> is complex and involves multiple factors, such as host recognition, penetration, colonization, toxin production, and evasion of host defense5. The type and number of pathogenic effectors are not fully known, but some studies have identified several candidate effectors that may play a role in virulence, such as oxalic acid, necrosis-inducing proteins, cutinases, lipases, proteases, and others5 . Differences in infestation of different plants may depend on the host susceptibility, tissue specificity, environmental conditions, and fungal strain variation5 . Some plants may have natural or induced resistance mechanisms that can limit or prevent infection by <em>Sclerotinia sclerotiorum</em>5 . 
